Add runtime module readme (#41212)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang: bvm/ballerina-runtime/README.md

| typedesc           | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc        |                                                                        |
| error              | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BError           |                                                                        |

## Main API constructs

| **Construct**                            | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.Environment     | Developers can use this as the first argument of an interop method, Ballerina will inject an instance of Environment when calling. That instance can be used to communicate with the currently executing Ballerina runtime. With Environment, you can get interop Ballerina function name, path parameters, strand id, strand metadata, current module, current runtime, etc. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Environment     | Developers can use this as the first argument of an interop method, Ballerina will inject an instance of `Environment` when calling. That instance can be used to communicate with the currently executing Ballerina runtime. With `Environment`, you can get interop Ballerina function name, path parameters, strand id, strand metadata, current module, current runtime, etc. |
```

Reviewer: When applying my suggestion, may need to change the spacing.

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Future          | This will contain the future value once we call the Ballerina method from API asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Module          | Represent Java runtime module.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.PredefinedTypes | Contains Predefined types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.PredefinedTypes | Contains predefined types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime         | An instance of the current runtime can be obtained through an Environment instance. This will contain APIs to call Ballerina object methods asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime         | An instance of the current runtime can be obtained through an `Environment` instance. This will contain APIs to call Ballerina object methods asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.TypeTags        | Contains runtime type tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Create a Ballerina value

The **io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.ValueCreator**  provides APIs to create Ballerina value instances. A Ballerina value can be created using one of the methods provided in the ValueCreator class as per the requirements.

For example, an array value can be created as follows,

```
BArray array = ValueCreator.createArrayValue(arrayType);
```

## Create a Ballerina type

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.TypeCreator` class provides APIs to create Ballerina type instances. There are multiple methods available to create Ballerina type instances based on the requirements.

> For example, a string array type can be created as follows,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a string type array can be created as follows,
```

```

> ArrayType strArrayType = TypeCreator.createArrayType(PredefinedTypes.TYPE\_STRING)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ArrayType strArrayType = TypeCreator.createArrayType(PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING)
```

```

## Calling a Ballerina object method

> Ballerina runtime exposes APIs to call the Ballerina object method and Ballerina function pointer using Java.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina runtime exposes APIs to call a Ballerina object method and a Ballerina function pointer using Java.
```

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime` class exposes two Java APIs to call object methods.

1. `invokeMethodAsyncSequentially`

> Invoke the Object method asynchronously and sequentially. This method will ensure that the object methods are invoked in the same thread where other object methods are executed. So, the methods will be executed sequentially per object level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoke the object method asynchronously and sequentially. This method will ensure that the object methods are invoked in the same thread where other object methods are executed. So, the methods will be executed sequentially per object level.
```

2. `invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently`

> Invoke the Object method asynchronously and concurrently. The caller needs to ensure that no data race is possible for the mutable state with a given object method and with arguments. So, the method can be concurrently run with different OS threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoke the object method asynchronously and concurrently. The caller needs to ensure that no data race is possible for the mutable state with a given object method and with arguments. So, the method can be concurrently run with different OS threads.
```

>**Note:** If the caller can ensure that the given object and object method are isolated and no data race is possible for the mutable state with given arguments, use `invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently`, otherwise use `invokeMethodAsyncSequentially`. We can decide the object method isolation if and only if both `object.getType().isIsolated()` and `object.getType().isIsolated(methodName)` return `true`.

The following code shows an example of calling an isolated method using Java API.

#### Ballerina

```ballerina
import ballerina/jballerina.java;

public class Person {

    public string name;
    public int age;
    
    function init(string name, int age) {
        self.name = name;
        self.age = age;
    }

    public function play(string sport = "cricket") returns string {
        return sport;
    }
        
    public function callPlayWithArgs(string s) returns string = @java:Method {
        'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples.Test"
    } external;
}

public function main() {
    Person p = new Person("John", 30);
    string sport = p.callPlay("football");
}
```

> #### Java
> ```Java
> 
> class Test {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Java

```java
class Test {
```

    public static BString callPlay(Environment env, BObject object, BString bString) {
        Future future = env.markAsync();
        env.getRuntime().invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently(object, "play", "play", null,
            new Callback() {
                @Override
                public void notifySuccess(Object result) {
                    future.complete(result);
                }
    
                @Override
                public void notifyFailure(BError error) {
                    future.complete(error);
                }
            }, null, PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING, bString, true);
            return null;
        }
}
```

### Calling a Function Pointer

> Developers can call a function through a function pointer which passes through an interop function. Runtime exposes the ‘asyncCall’ method in `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can call a function through a function pointer which passes through an interop function. Runtime exposes the `asyncCal` method in `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer` class.
```

Author: Should be asyncCall?

E.g.

#### Ballerina

```ballerina
public function main() returns error? {
    function (int n) returns boolean f = isEven;
    any result = checkpanic invokeFunctionPointer(f, 2);
    boolean b = <boolean>result;
}

function isEven(int n) returns boolean {
    return n % 2 == 0;
}

public isolated function invokeFunctionPointer(function func, any|error... args) returns any|error = @java:Method {
    'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples.Test",
    name: "invokeFunctionPointer"
} external;
```

> #### Java
> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Java

```java
```

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.flags        | Runtime flags                                    |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.launch       | Constructs for startup runtime                   |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.types        | Represent Ballerina Java types                   |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils        | Utils methods                                    |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.values | Represent Ballerina Java values                  |

## Map Java types to Ballerina types
The following table summarizes how Java types are mapped to corresponding Ballerina types. This is applicable when mapping a return type of a Java method to a Ballerina type.

| **Java type**                            | **Ballerina type** | **Notes**                                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Any reference type including “null type” | handle             |                                                        |
| boolean                                  | boolean            |                                                        |

> | byte                                     | byte, int, float   | widening conversion when byte -> int and byte -> float |
> | short                                    | int, float         | widening conversion                                    |
> | char                                     | int, float         | widening conversion                                    |
> | int                                      | int, float         | widening conversion                                    |
> | long                                     | int, float         | widening conversion when long -> float                 |
> | float                                    | float              | widening conversion                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| byte                                     | byte, int, float   | Widening conversion when byte -> int and byte -> float |
| short                                    | int, float         | Widening conversion                                    |
| char                                     | int, float         | Widening conversion                                    |
| int                                      | int, float         | Widening conversion                                    |
| long                                     | int, float         | Widening conversion when long -> float                 |
| float                                    | float              | Widening conversion                                    |
```
Similar to the other tables we added.

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.TypeTags        | Contains runtime type tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Create a Ballerina value

The **io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.ValueCreator**  provides APIs to create Ballerina value instances. A Ballerina value can be created using one of the methods provided in the ValueCreator class as per the requirements.

For example, an array value can be created as follows,

```
BArray array = ValueCreator.createArrayValue(arrayType);
```

## Create a Ballerina type

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.TypeCreator` class provides APIs to create Ballerina type instances. There are multiple methods available to create Ballerina type instances based on the requirements.

> For example, a string type array can be created as follows.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the Record/Object type creation as a note? That we can't use them for value creation.

# The Ballerina Java Runtime
This module contains the implementation of the Ballerina runtime which is designed as the following packages.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.internal.\*
Since the internal package is restricted only to be used within the Ballerina runtime internals, Ballerina developers **should not** use any java classes from the internal package. These internal Java constructs can be often changed and will not be part of the release note.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.transactions.\*
This will only be exposed to the Ballerina transaction package and should not be used by external developers.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.observability.\*
This will only be exposed to the Ballerina observability package and should not be used by external developers.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.api.\*
Ballerina runtime exposes the `api` package to external developers to connect with the Ballerina runtime ecosystem. So external developers **should only** use these APIs. Any changes or improvements to the APIs will be notified with the release note.

## Ballerina Java Runtime API

> Ballerina Java Interoperability enables Ballerina developers to call java code from Ballerina as it runs on top of JVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina Java Interoperability enables Ballerina developers to call Java code from Ballerina as it runs on top of JVM.
```

Ballerina offers a set of Java APIs to developers to interactively work with Ballerina runtime constructs such as creating Ballerina Java values, calling Ballerina methods asynchronously, getting into Ballerina type systems, etc.

### Adding Ballerina Java Runtime Dependency
You can add Ballerina runtime dependency as below.

#### Maven

``` xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.ballerinalang\</groupId>
    <artifactId>ballerina-runtime\</artifactId>
    <version>${ballerinaLangVersion}\</version>
</dependency>
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Gradle

```Gradle 
implementation group: 'org.ballerinalang', name: 'ballerina-runtime', version: "${ballerinaLangVersion}"
```

> **Important:** Always add Ballerina runtime as a compile time dependency. At runtime,it should use the Ballerina

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** Always add Ballerina runtime as a compile time dependency. At runtime, it should use the Ballerina
```

> runtime jar which is bundled with the running distribution. We should not create any fat jars including Ballerina runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime jar which is bundled with the running distribution. We should not create any fat jars which include the Ballerina runtime.
```

Those will cause unexpected issues due to mismatching runtime artifacts with the given distribution version.

> Dependency versions can be found here.
> <https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/packages/412940>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependency versions can be found [here](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/packages/412940).
```

## Ballerina Java Runtime API
Ballerina runtime API will contain the following sub packages.

| **Package**                           | **Description**                                  |
|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| io.ballerina.runtime.api              | Basic runtime constructs                         |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.async        | Handle Ballerina asynchronous related constructs |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.constants    | Runtime constants                                |

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators     | APIs to create types, values etc                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators     | APIs to create types, values, etc.               |
```

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime         | An instance of the current runtime can be obtained through an Environment instance. This will contain APIs to call Ballerina object methods asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.TypeTags        | Contains runtime type tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Create a Ballerina value

> The **io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.ValueCreator**  provides APIs to create Ballerina value instances. A Ballerina value can be created using one of the methods provided in the ValueCreator class as per the requirements.
> For example, an array value can be created as follows,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.ValueCreator**  provides APIs to create Ballerina value instances. A Ballerina value can be created using one of the methods provided in the ValueCreator class as per the requirements.

For example, an array value can be created as follows,
```

```
BArray array = ValueCreator.createArrayValue(arrayType);
```

## Create a Ballerina type

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.TypeCreator` class provides APIs to create Ballerina type instances. There are multiple methods available to create Ballerina type instances based on the requirements.

For example, a string array type can be created as follows,

```
ArrayType strArrayType = TypeCreator.createArrayType(PredefinedTypes.TYPE\_STRING)
```

> ## Calling Ballerina object method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Calling a Ballerina object method
```

Ballerina runtime exposes APIs to call the Ballerina object method and Ballerina function pointer using Java.

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime` class exposes two Java APIs to call object methods.

> 1. invokeMethodAsyncSequentially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `invokeMethodAsyncSequentially`
```

Invoke the Object method asynchronously and sequentially. This method will ensure that the object methods are invoked in the same thread where other object methods are executed. So, the methods will be executed sequentially per object level.

> 2. invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently`
```

Invoke the Object method asynchronously and concurrently. The caller needs to ensure that no data race is possible for the mutable state with a given object method and with arguments. So, the method can be concurrently run with different OS threads.

> **Note:** If the caller can ensure that the given object and object method are isolated and no data race is possible for the mutable state with given arguments, use @invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently
> otherwise, use @invokeMethodAsyncSequentially. We can decide the object method isolation if and only if both object.getType().isIsolated() and object.getType().isIsolated(methodName) returns true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** If the caller can ensure that the given object and object method are isolated and no data race is possible for the mutable state with given arguments, use `invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently`, otherwise use `invokeMethodAsyncSequentially`. We can decide the object method isolation if and only if both `object.getType().isIsolated()` and `object.getType().isIsolated(methodName)` return `true`.
```

The following code shows an example of calling an isolated method using Java API.

#### Ballerina

```ballerina

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> import ballerina/jballerina.java;
> public class Person {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import ballerina/jballerina.java;

public class Person {
```

    public string name;
    public int age;
    
    function init(string name, int age) {
        self.name = name;
        self.age = age;
    }

    public function play(string sport = "cricket") returns string {
        return sport;
    }
        
    public function callPlayWithArgs(string s) returns string = @java:Method {
        'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples.Test"
    } external;
}

public function main() {
    Person p = new Person("John", 30);
    string sport = p.callPlay("football");
}
```

#### Java
```Java

class Test {

>     public static BString callPlay(Environment env,BObject object,BString bString) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public static BString callPlay(Environment env, BObject object, BString bString) {
```

        Future future = env.markAsync();

>         env.getRuntime().invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently(object,"play","play",null,
>             new Callback(){
>                 @Override
>                 public void notifySuccess(Object result){
>                     future.complete(result);
>                 }
>     
>                 @Override
>                 public void notifyFailure(BError error){
>                     future.complete(error);
>                 }
>             },null,PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING,bString,true);
>             return null;
>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        env.getRuntime().invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently(object, "play", "play", null,
            new Callback() {
                @Override
                public void notifySuccess(Object result) {
                    future.complete(result);
                }
    
                @Override
                public void notifyFailure(BError error) {
                    future.complete(error);
                }
            }, null, PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING, bString, true);
            return null;
        }
```

}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Calling a Function Pointer

Developers can call a function through a function pointer which passes through an interop function. Runtime exposes the ‘asyncCall’ method in `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer` class.

> Ex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g.
```

> #### Ballerina

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Ballerina
```

```ballerina

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

public function main() returns error? {
    function (int n) returns boolean f = isEven;
    any result = checkpanic invokeFunctionPointer(f, 2);
    boolean b = <boolean>result;
}

function isEven(int n) returns boolean {
    return n % 2 == 0;

> }

Reviewer: Shall we use `=>` here

Author: I have use same example in bbe

public isolated function invokeFunctionPointer(function func, any|error... args) returns any|error = @java:Method {
    'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples.Test",
    name: "invokeFunctionPointer"
} external;

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

#### Java
```java

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

class Test {
    public static Object invokeFunctionPointer(Object func, Object[] args) {
        BFunctionPointer function = (BFunctionPointer) func;
        List<Object> argList = new ArrayList<>();
        for (Object arg : args) {
            argList.add(arg);

>             argList.add(true);  // Due to a limitation in the current api we need to pass true as every other 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            argList.add(true);  // Due to a limitation in the current API we need to pass `true` as every other 
```

# The Ballerina Java Runtime
This module contains the implementation of the Ballerina runtime which is designed as the following packages.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.internal.\*

> Since the internal package is restricted only to be used with Ballerina runtime internals, ballerina developers **should not** use any java classes from the internal package. These internal java constructs can be often changed and will not be part of the release note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the internal package is restricted only to be used with Ballerina runtime internals, Ballerina developers **should not** use any java classes from the internal package. These internal java constructs can be often changed and will not be part of the release note.
```
Shall we change `ballerina` to `Ballerina` in the texts. There are several text occurrences.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.transactions.\*
This will be only exposed to the ballerina transaction package and should not be used by external developers.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.observability.\*
This will be only exposed to the ballerina observability package and should not be used by external developers.

#### io.ballerina.runtime.api.\*
Ballerina runtime expose api package to external developers to connect with Ballerina runtime ecosystem. So external developers **should only** use these APIs. Any changes or improvements to the APIs will be notified with the release note.

## Ballerina Java Runtime API
Ballerina Java Interoperability enables ballerina developers to call java code from ballerina as it runs on top of JVM. 
Ballerina offers a set of Java APIs to developers to interactively work with Ballerina runtime constructs such as create Ballerina Java values, call ballerina methods asynchronously, get into ballerina type systems etc.

### Adding Ballerina Java Runtime Dependency

> You can add ballerina runtime dependency as below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add ballerina runtime dependency as below.
```

#### Maven

``` xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.ballerinalang\</groupId>
    <artifactId>ballerina-runtime\</artifactId>
    <version>${ballerinaLangVersion}\</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Gradle

```Gradle 
implementation group: 'org.ballerinalang', name: 'ballerina-runtime', version: "${ballerinaLangVersion}"
```

> **Importan:** Always add ballerina runtime as a compile time dependency. At runtime it should use the ballerina 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** Always add Ballerina runtime as a compile time dependency. At runtime it should use the Ballerina 
```

| table              | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTable           |                                                                        |
| stream             | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BStream          |                                                                        |
| object             | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BObject          |                                                                        |
| future             | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFuture          |                                                                        |
| function           | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer |                                                                        |
| typedesc           | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc        |                                                                        |
| error              | io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BError           |                                                                        |

## Jballerina main API constructs

> |                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> |------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | **Construct**                            | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Construct**                            | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
```

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.Environment     | Developers can use this as the first argument of an interop method, Ballerina will inject an instance of Environment when calling. That instance can be used to communicate with the currently executing Ballerina runtime.With Environment you can get interop ballerina function name, path parameters, strand id, strand metadata, current module , current runtime etc. |

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Environment     | Developers can use this as the first argument of an interop method, Ballerina will inject an instance of Environment when calling. That instance can be used to communicate with the currently executing Ballerina runtime. With Environment, you can get interop ballerina function name, path parameters, strand id, strand metadata, current module, current runtime, etc. |
```

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.Future          | This will contain the future value once we call the ballerina method from API asynchrounously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Future          | This will contain the future value once we call the ballerina method from API asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
```

| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Module          | Represent Java runtime module.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.PredefinedTypes | Contains Predefined types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime         | You can get an instance of current runtime through an Environment instance. This will contain APIs to call ballerina object methods asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime         | An instance of the current runtime can be obtained through an Environment instance. This will contain APIs to call ballerina object methods asynchronously.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

## Create a Ballerina value

The **io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.ValueCreator**  provides APIs to create Ballerina value instances. A Ballerina value can be created using one of the methods provided in the ValueCreator class as per the requirements.
For example, an array value can be created as follows,

```
BArray array = ValueCreator.createArrayValue(arrayType);
```

## Create a Ballerina type

`io.ballerina.runtime.api.creators.TypeCreator` class provides APIs to create Ballerina type instances. There are multiple methods available to create Ballerina type instances based on the requirements.

For example, a string array type can be created as follows,

```
ArrayType strArrayType = TypeCreator.createArrayType(PredefinedTypes.TYPE\_STRING)
```

## Calling ballerina object method

> Ballerina runtime has exposed APIs to call ballerina object method and ballerina function pointer using Java.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina runtime exposes APIs to call the Ballerina object method and Ballerina function pointer using Java.
```

> io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime class exposes two java APis to call object methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`io.ballerina.runtime.api.Runtime` class exposes two Java APIs to call object methods.
```

1. invokeMethodAsyncSequentially

> Invoke Object method asynchronously and sequentially. This method will ensure that the object methods are invoked in the same thread where other object methods are executed. So, the methods will be executed sequentially per object level.

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
Invoke the Object method asynchronously and sequentially. This method will ensure that the object methods are invoked in the same thread where other object methods are executed. So, the methods will be executed sequentially per object level.
```

2. invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently

> Invoke Object method asynchronously and concurrently. Caller needs to ensure that no data race is possible for the mutable state with a given object method and with arguments. So, the method can be concurrently run with different os threads.

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
Invoke the Object method asynchronously and concurrently. The caller needs to ensure that no data race is possible for the mutable state with a given object method and with arguments. So, the method can be concurrently run with different OS threads.
```

> Ex. call an isolated method using Java API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example of calling an isolated method using Java API.
```

#### Ballerina

```ballerina

import ballerina/jballerina.java;
public class Person {

    public string name;
    public int age;
    
    function init(string name, int age) {
        self.name = name;
        self.age = age;
    }

    public function play(string sport = "cricket") returns string {
        return sport;
    }
        
    public function callPlayWithArgs(string s) returns string = @java:Method {
        'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples.Test"
    } external;
}

public function main() {
    Person p = new Person("John", 30);
    string sport = p.callPlay("football");
}
```

#### Java
```Java

class Test {
    public static BString callPlay(Environment env,BObject object,BString bString) {

>         Future future=env.markAsync();

Author: ```suggestion
        Future future = env.markAsync();
```

        env.getRuntime().invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently(object,"play","play",null,
            new Callback(){
                @Override
                public void notifySuccess(Object result){
                    future.complete(result);
                }
    
                @Override
                public void notifyFailure(BError error){
                    future.complete(error);
                }
            },null,PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING,bString,true);
            return null;
        }

> }

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
        public static BString callPlay(Environment env, BObject object, BString bString) {
            Future future = env.markAsync();
            env.getRuntime().invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently(object, "play", "play", null, new Callback() {
                @Override
                public void notifySuccess(Object result) {
                    future.complete(result);
                }

                @Override
                public void notifyFailure(BError error) {
                    future.complete(error);
                }
            }, null, PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING, bString, true);
            return null;
        }
    }
```

```

> **Note:** If caller can ensure that given object and object method is isolated and no data race is possible for the mutable state with given arguments, use @invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** If the caller can ensure that the given object and object method are isolated and no data race is possible for the mutable state with given arguments, use @invokeMethodAsyncConcurrently
```

>  otherwise @invokeMethodAsyncSequentially . We can decide the object method isolation if and only if both object.getType().isIsolated() and object.getType().isIsolated(methodName) returns true.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 otherwise, use @invokeMethodAsyncSequentially. We can decide the object method isolation if and only if both object.getType().isIsolated() and object.getType().isIsolated(methodName) returns true.
```

### Calling a Function Pointer

> Developers can call a function through a function pointer which passes through an interop function. Runtime expose ‘asyncCall’ method in io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer class.

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
Developers can call a function through a function pointer which passes through an interop function. Runtime exposes the ‘asyncCall’ method in `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BFunctionPointer` class.
```

Ex.
#### Ballerina

```ballerina

public function main() returns error? {
    function (int n) returns boolean f = isEven;
    any result = checkpanic invokeFunctionPointer(f, 2);
    boolean b = <boolean>result;
}

function isEven(int n) returns boolean {
    return n % 2 == 0;
}

public isolated function invokeFunctionPointer(function func, any|error... args) returns any|error = @java:Method {
    'class: "org.ballerinalang.examples",
    name: "invokeFunctionPointer"
} external;

```

#### Java
```java

> class Test {
>     public static Object invokeFunctionPointer(Object func, Object[] args) {
>         BFunctionPointer function = (BFunctionPointer) func;
>         List<Object> argList = new ArrayList<>();
>         for (Object arg : args) {
>             argList.add(arg);
>             argList.add(true);  // Due to a limitation in the current api we need to pass true as every other 
>                                 // parameter value to handle default values.
>         }
>         return function.asyncCall(argList.toArray(), o -> o, METADATA);
>     }
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        class Test {
            public static Object invokeFunctionPointer(Object func, Object[] args) {
                BFunctionPointer function = (BFunctionPointer) func;
                List<Object> argList = new ArrayList<>();
                for (Object arg : args) {
                    argList.add(arg);
                    argList.add(true);  // Due to a limitation in the current api we need to pass true as every other 
                    // parameter value to handle default values.
                }
                return function.asyncCall(argList.toArray(), o -> o, METADATA);
            }
        }
```

ArrayType strArrayType = TypeCreator.createArrayType(PredefinedTypes.TYPE_STRING)
```

Note: If we need to create a record type or object type defined in the module, we need to pass the type definition 
name and module to get the type instance. 

We can use other TypeCreator APIs to create own record or object type. But record or object values created using those 
types will not work properly in Ballerina code since those type definitions are not defined in the module.

Those can only be use for Java unit tests.

> 

Reviewer 2: ``` suggestion
Note: If we need to create a record type or object type defined in the module, we need to pass the type definition 
name and module to get the type instance. 

We can use other TypeCreator APIs to create our own record or object type. But record or object values created using those 
types will not work correctly in the Ballerina code since those type definitions are not defined in the module.

Those can only be used for Java unit tests.
```
